So we added linting,
let's now have a look at bundling our code, so combine all these individual code files,
these individual scripts into one large script so that we can write our code in a distributed way, so
that we can write our code like this with multiple code files
but that in the end they are merged together so that we don't send all these unnecessary HttpRequests
and for that, we'll use a tool called webpack. Webpack is a bundling tool,
it's also more than that, it helps us orchestrate our entire build workflow as you will see
but to get started we'll just use it, with its core task in mind, as a bundler.
Now webpack has a really good documentation at webpack.js.org,
there you can dive into the docs, go through all these guides here to have detailed instructions on all
the different things you can set up, dive into the different concepts to understand how webpack thinks
and what the different building blocks of webpack are and maybe also dive into the configuration to
dive into all the nitty-gritty details you can configure because and I will say this right away, webpack
is a complex tool. To get started with it,
you don't need to configure much and we'll actually be able to do a lot with it
in this module already but to truly master it and fine tune it for all the requirements more advanced
projects might need,
you should definitely check out this documentation because you could easily create an entire course
just on webpack and that's just not what this course is about
so we'll keep it fairly simple and focus on its core tasks, its core strengths and for that, we first
of all need to install it.
So back in our project, open up this integrated terminal, navigate it into your folder therefore
and there we need to install the webpack again with npm as a development dependency of this project.
For that, we run npm install --save-dev and then it's webpack
and also one other tool, webpack-cli. So I'm installing two tools here, webpack and then unfortunately
with a line break in between, webpack-cli,
these two packages are getting installed now.
Now simply hit enter and this will now go ahead and fetch these packages, store them in the node modules
folder which we already talked about and make them available to us. So let's wait for that to finish,
it should finish without an error,
if you're getting a warning in between, you can ignore that, in the end it should finish with a message
that looks something like this, confirming the versions that were installed and it should update the
package.json file to add these two new packages as a dependency.
The exact versions of course will differ at the point of time you're viewing this,
the idea behind webpack and how you use it will not.
So now we've got a webpack installed, how do we now use it?
Well to use webpack, we typically create a configuration file where we tell webpack, that webpack tool,
what to do. For that
I'll add a new file on my top level next to the eslintrc.json file and the package.json file
and this is a webpack.config.json file, not .json but .js. This is a file which webpack
will use to do its thing, to do its job
and now here in this file, we have to provide a configuration for webpack.
Now this file under the hood uses or is executed by Node.js. We haven't learned Node.js yet but generally
Node.js is also just Javascript with some extra features but therefore you'll understand the syntax because
it's just Javascript.
The one thing which is new though is how we export something in Node.js world? Instead of using the
export keyword to make something available outside of this file,
we use module.exports and set this equal to a Javascript object here.
Now this is new,
we haven't seen that before,
this simply is the syntax Node.js uses for exposing this object outside of this file and webpack, the
webpack tool we installed,
will go ahead and import this object,
so this will be our configuration object where we configure webpack.
Now here I'm getting an error, module is not defined with the no-undef rule and we can quick fix this
to disable no undefined for this line, alternatively we add the no undefined rule here and set it
to off to disable it entirely.
That's an alternative and this is what I'm doing here
so that we don't face any issues with that.
So now with that, I'm exporting this configuration object.
Now webpack needs to know where the starting point of your app is,
so it needs to know where in your source files the entry point of your project is and it will then take
that entry point, in our case that would be app.js, analyse this file, most importantly analyse the imports
of that file and then resolve all the dependencies of that file and the files related to that file.
So in this example, webpack would go into app.js, look at its imports,
see that we import the project list and therefore go to the project list file,
look at this files imports and therefore see project item and the DOM helper,
look at these files and so on,
this is what webpack would do here to analyse your script and understand what's happening there.
So therefore we need to inform webpack what our entry file is and this now actually is the part where
we will also need to reorganise our folder structure a little bit because now we'll have to split it
into our input source files and our output generated files
and for that, I'll add a new folder here and name it src, it's not a must use but it's a convention
to use src which stands for source as the folder that holds your input files
and then I'll grab the content of the scripts folder, so the app folder, the utility folder and app.js
and drag that into source so that the scripts folder in assets is empty.
So now this is dragged over here and with that dragged over, we now want to specify this app.js file
in the source folder as the entry point and specify assets scripts as the output point
so to say. For that we go back into the webpack.config.js file and now here in this exported
object, you specify an entry key and this can just be a string where you point at your entry file,
it could also be a more complex object,
you can also use multiple entry points but here in this simple project and in many projects you're working
on, you'll have one central entry point.
So here we specify a relative path from this webpack config file to the entry file,
so in my case that's dot slash, which means start in the same folder as the webpack config file, then
source and then in there, app.js, this is my entry file and that's an important piece of information
to webpack.
Now besides the entry file, we also need to specify where the output should be written to and for that, we
can add an output key here and that can now be a Javascript object where we for one specify the file name
that should be generated
and here I'll stick to app.js let's say and the second thing is of course the path where we want
to generate that file in.
Now keep in mind, this will be our bundled code,
this will be one code file in the end which contains all the other merged code files. Now to generate
that path here, we can use a utility module, a utility package built into Node.js which you have available
as well because you installed Node.js and that's the path package.
Now we need to import that package here and if you import, in Node.js you don't do it with import, just
as we also didn't use export to export something,
instead you import like this. We want to use the path package so we store it in a constant, path and
we import it with the require function here where we simply pass the package name to path and path is
a package built into Node.js.
So this imports the path package and stores its features under the path constant and now down there
where we need a path, we can use path.resolve to basically build an absolute path with
the help of that tool, where we want to start in our current path and for that, Node.js has a global
constant, __dirname, this simply gives us access to this current path where the config
file lives in and then ,assets, scripts.
What this does is it constructs a new absolute path and output needs an absolute path, not a relative
one, starting at our current file,
so the absolute path to our current file, adding /assets to this path, adding /scripts to this
path, so that in the end we generate our output here in the scripts folder. And now with that if we save
that, we have a basic webpack setup. Now to use it, let's go to package.json and there you have
this script section. This allows you to set up some scripts which you can run through the command line,
so here you can simply add a new script by adding a comma and then between double quotes any name of
your choice, for example build, now and then a colon and then also between double quotes, the instructions
you want to run and there we can type webpack and this will use this webpack-cli tool under the hood
which in turn will use the webpack tool to do its thing and webpack will automatically search for
such a
webpack.config.js file which is why it's important that you name it exactly like this and take this
configuration into account.
So now we just have to save the package.json file and now let's try running it with npm run build,
this now it starts webpack and here it actually quits with an error.
Now you see, here what it doesn't like is this projects equal thing here,
it doesn't like this syntax.
It tells us we might need an appropriate loader to use this Javascript feature.
Now the thing indeed is that in project list and project item where we have this syntax,
this is very new syntax which at the point of time I'm recording this is not part of the Javascript specification.
It works in Chrome already but not all browsers support it and officially, it's still in draft state,
this class field syntax here which is why webpack out of the box does not understand it and not support
it, ESLint by the way also doesn't,
I'm getting an error here. So this works but it's on the edge so to say and therefore not fully supported
by all tools yet.
Now we could make it work with a so-called loader but that is something I'll dive into a bit little
bit later,
also in the browser support section and therefore for now, the fix simply is to comment this out here and
instead add this project as a property here in the constructor. We can also comment out this unused code
here by the way to make this file error-free, this was a technical error but ESLint also doesn't
like unused code.
Now here in project item, it's the same, we can comment this out and instead add it here, has active tooltip
and set it to false. With that, let's retry this and let's rerun npm run build and
let's see what we get
and again we failed but now with a different error.
If we scroll up a bit to the first red message, we see that it can't resolve projectitem.js.js.
So indeed and that's just something you have to know,
webpack as an extra utility feature doesn't require you to add the extension to your imports,
we needed that when we ran the code like this in the browser
but webpack actually just wants to import without any extension and it then looks for files with .js
at the end automatically. So the fix here is to go through all our files and remove the .js
at the end.
So here in app.js, I remove it at the end of the import in this file,
same in analytics.js,
okay there we have no imports,
same for DOM helper, there we also have no imports, tooltip, there
I did have .js at the end, so I'll remove it there as well.
Projectlist, remove it at the end at as well,
same here, projectitem,
get rid of it
there, also here for our dynamic import
by the way
and that should be it.
If we now save that and we again run this, we get yet another error from the tooltip.js file, line 13,
this close tooltip function.
If we have a look at the tooltip file, in the end,
this is the same syntax I just removed before, where we have that cutting edge class field syntax and
that's the same here,
this in the end is a class field where we store a function instead of another value.
Therefore the fix here as well is to get rid of it here and instead add it here, with this.close
tooltip.
Let's save that and again retry npm run build and now this looks better.
We get a warning,
we can ignore that for now but what we also get are two files here in the scripts folder, in the assets
folder, an app.js file which is quite unreadable,
so it looks like we already got optimization going on and a 1.app.js file.
Now we get two files as output because I do have that lazy loading as it's also sometimes called
in project item, where we only load the tooltip code when we need it and therefore this tooltip code
and all the dependencies that only belong to the tooltip are packed into its own bundle, so that this
still is only loaded when we need it,
instead of upfront in one big bundle, so that we get the best of both worlds. Load some code
only when we need it but load the code we need right from the start in one go instead of dozens of
individual HttpRequests,
that's why we have two bundles.
Now why is it looking like this then?
Because webpack by default built this for production mode and already optimized it,
so let's see how we can change that.